# Scripts

You will find various useful scripts in the `bin` directory of your generated project. You need to put this directory in your `PATH` if you wish to utilise them. There are both Mac, Linux and Windows scripts available.

These bash and .bat scripts are for building and running both flask and electron, in your new project. They are for developer use and not needed when you deploy your final electron app.

These scripts assume that a local Python exists in the `./venv` directory root of your generated project. This `electron-flask` Yoeman generator would have created that for you!

> If you are not using a virtual environment then ensure you have installed all the dependencies in `requirements.txt` into your default Python environment, and adjust the scripts as needed, so that they don't refer to `venv\` anymore.

# Getting the scripts to work

You will need to add `bin` to your PATH, after which, you can invoke any script residing in ./bin from the root of your newly created project, e.g. by typing `runflask`.  This will work for both Mac/Linux and Windows 10. In Windows 10 the `.bat` script will be found, not the bash script.

Also, because some of these scripts call each other, you must have `./bin` in your PATH.

## Mac, Linux

Edit your `~/.bashrc` and add:

    export PATH="./bin:$PATH"

then start a fresh shell.

## Windows 10

Use Command Prompt terminal (not powershell) to run these scripts.

Add `bin` to your 'Environment Variables / User variables for USER / Path' using the built in editor, which you can find by typing 'path' into the windows search bar and selecting 'Edit the system environment variables' menu item.

Then ensure you close all running terminals and shells and open a fresh terminal. In 'Command Prompt' shell type `PATH` and check to ensure the relative path to `bin` has been added ok e.g. Look for the entry below:

    ...;bin;

# Scripts Documentation

- Flask 'exe' refers to the executable file generated by PyInstaller. Of course on Linux/Mac systems, those executables don't have the `.exe` file extension. I still refer to them as 'exe's.
- Electron 'exe' refers to the final executable Electron based app, which can be distributed to users.

For development, calling `runelectron` aka. `npm start` whilst your python environment is activated is the main workflow.

For production, the script `bin/run` does everything

- installs dependencies, 
- builds both the flask and electron executables, and 
- runs the final electron based app

If you don't want to run the resulting electron exe, just invoke `bin/build`.

> Remember: Because these scripts call each other, you must have `./bin` in your PATH.

## Build Scripts

For building the flask exe and electron exe.  

When building the electron executable, the flask executable is embedded inside the electron executable.

**Script Name**|**Description**
:-----:|:-----
install-deps| Install python and node dependencies
build| Builds the flask exe and electron exe
buildelectron-exe| Build the electron exe
buildflask-exe| Builds the flask exe using Pyinstaller

## Run Scripts

For running the flask server in development and also in executable mode, as well as when it is packaged inside the electron executable.

For running the electron app in development mode, and launching the final electron executable from the command line. Of course you can also double click on the final electron executable to launch it too. 

> On Linux double click on the final electron executable will probably fail - see [linux notes](doco/building-apps-for-linux.md)

**Script Name**|**Description**
:-----:|:-----
run| Does everything, installs dependencies, builds both the flask and electron executables, and runs the final electron based app. During development and testing, you probably want to use the more granular build and run scripts.
runelectron| Runs the electron based app in development mode using `npm start`. Flask is also started in development mode via the electron main process spawning it.
runelectron-exe| Runs the final electron based app. If you want to build this, first run `buildflask-exe` followed by `buildelectron-exe`.
runflask| Run flask in development mode using `python src-flask-server/app.py`
runflask-exe| run the flask executable that was built by Pyinstaller.  If you want to build this flask exe please run the script `buildflask-exe`.
runflask-exe-inside-electron| Run the flask executable which has been embedded inside the electron app - use for debugging

## Utility Scripts

Misc scripts you might use during development.

**Script Name**|**Description**
:-----:|:-----
whos-on-flask-port| See what processes are running on port 5000 (or whatever port number you chose in the yo generator wizard) which is the default flask server port - handy just in case flask is still running and wasn't killed when the electron app exited. Kill it using `kill pid` using the process id listed (Mac, Linux) or `taskkill /PID NNNN` (Windows). 

For Windows 10

- command prompt: run `whos-on-flask-port` which invokes `bin\whos-on-flask-port.bat`
- powershell: run `bin\whos-on-flask-port` which invokes `bin\whos-on-flask-port.ps1`
